# Products Application

This repository contains an Application that is used to create, fetch, update and delete products for a Inventory
platform.
It utilizes MongoDB as its database, and Docker for containerization. It exposes a set of REST APIs, each documented
separately. The project is built using Maven.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Running the Application with Docker](#running-the-application-with-docker)
- [About the service](#about-the-service)

## Prerequisites

Before running this Spring Boot application, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed on your system:

- Java 17
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)
- [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Running the Application with Docker Compose
### Clone the Repository:

``git clone <your-repository-url>
cd <your-repository-directory>``

### Build the Spring Boot Application:
Build your Spring Boot application using Maven. Replace <your-maven-command> with the appropriate command for your project.

``mvn clean install``

### Run Docker Compose:
Open a terminal in the project directory where your docker-compose.yml file is located and run the following command:

``docker-compose up --build``

### Access the Spring Boot Application:
Once the Docker containers are up and running, you can access the Spring Boot application and call the REST endpoints at http://localhost:8080.

### Access MongoDB:
MongoDB can be accessed at mongodb://localhost:27017. Users can use a MongoDB client or tools like MongoDB Compass to interact with the database.

### Stop and Remove Containers:
To stop and remove the Docker containers, use the following command in the terminal:

``docker-compose down``

## About the Service

This service is a simple REST service used to create, fetch, update and delete products.
It uses a Mongo Database hosted with Docker.
This service has the following REST endpoints:

``````
GET api/products - Fetch all Products
``````

This endpoint also supports Pagination. To get the product list by size, use:

``````
GET api/products?size={size} where size is any positive integer
``````

``````
POST api/products - Create a single Product
Content-Type: application/json
Sample RequestBody:
{
    "name": "ProductName",
    "currentPrice": 298.1 
}

Notes: 
1. ID is generated by the application
2. Productname is unique
``````

``````
GET api/products/{id} - Get a single product by id
``````

``````
PATCH api/products/{id} - Update current price of a single product
Content-Type: application/json
Sample RequestBody:
{
    "currentPrice": 298.1
}
``````

``````
DELETE api/products/{id} - delete a single product
``````

Further Information about the REST Apis is provided in the API Document provided as part of the Repository.
Refer the file: `ProductsV1-OAS.yml`



